### A MMM has the following characteristics: ###

* it begins with noticing an event, process, idea, etc. that results in an outcome, insight, etc.
* its goal is a template that you keep in your head for later use

### An example of the originating situation ###

How a template is used when it roughly matches the situation begin examined; teaching by example:

Recently in the news: We found quakes occur on Mars. The reason for this is that  the core is cooling and therefore contracting. Mars's crust is rigid and brittle. The quakes occur when the crust cracks because of its weight.

### Creating the template ###

You create the template by describing the situation (above) is more abstract terms:

The <inner strength, core> of the <overall system> loses <energy, money, etc.>, causing it to <become less in some way>. The <outside, periphery, etc.> has <something negative> happen to it because of <one of its properties>.

### An example of how the above template might be used ###

Now imagine a company that's in trouble because it's (in some way--there are several) generating less money (which you can see as a kind of contraction). What's something on the "outside" that will be affected by the decreasing amount of money?

The "outside" could be the PR department, the salespeople, the rank-and-file employees. Are any of these at risk? In what way might they break down? Could some brittleness/inflexibility be in the mechanism by which this "outside" breaks?

Continuing our thinking in this direction, could the problem of the company with decreasing revenues be eliminated or reduced by causing some "outside" (which is a template in its own way) to become softer (e.g., make the sales force more attentive to its customers' desires)? Or more flexible (break products into smaller people, thus enabling customers to make a customized product that they like better (e.g., cheaper because it doesn't include needless features))?